an unprecedented sight Israeli police
raid El jaz's workspace in occupied East
Jerusalem after prime minister Benjamin
netanyahu's cabinet voted to shut down
the Network's
operations the government order which
was unanimously agreed upon includes
confiscating its broadcast equipment
preventing the Network's broadcast and
blocking its
websites government has now unanimously
ordered the closure of the incitement
mouthpiece of Hamas in Israel Al jazer
Al jaz's broadcast was taken off
Israel's main cable provider in the
hours after the
order the emergency measure will last
for 45 days with the possibility of an
extension for an additional 45 days in a
statement Al jaaz media Network
condemned the measure saying in part
Israel's ongoing suprem of the Free
Press seen as an effort to conceal its
actions in the Gaza Strip stands in
contravention of international and
humanitarian law Israel's direct
targeting and killing of journalists
arrests intimidation and threats will
not deter Al jazer from its commitment
to cover whilst more than 140
Palestinian journalists have been killed
since the beginning of the war on Gaza
the network vehemently rejects the
allegations presented by Israeli
authorities suggesting professional
media standards have been
violated last month the White House said
Israel's plans to close the network were
quote concerning a move like this is
concerning we believe in the freedom of
the press it is critical it is
critically important and the United
States supports the critically important
work journalists around the world do and
so and that includes those who were
reporting in uh in the conflict in Gaza
the widely criticized move was also
condemned by the Foreign Press
Association which urged the Israeli
government to reverse what it called a
harmful step adding that this was a dark
day for the media and a dark day for
democracy ham salut Al
jaaz ha matar is executive director of
plus 972 magazine which provides
independent commentary and news from
Israel and Palestine uh sir you're
joining us from Tel Aviv thank you for
your time
today your thoughts first on this
decision by the Israeli government to
shut down alaz in
Israel I think first of all it's clearly
a a criminal and very dangerous decision
an attack on free speech and the freedom
of press um it's also an attack mostly
on Israeli citizens because I think the
two main things that are going to happen
alongside the attack on Al jaer
journalists which are also of course
victims of this will be one that while
Al will be able to continue reporting
around the world they will not be able
to do reporting within Israel so the
voices of Israeli uh Society um will be
heard Less on Al zero because of this so
this is one harm to the Israel Society
the other is uh making it more difficult
to hear different voices um we have very
limited access to information coming out
of Gaza in Israeli media Outlets and I
think it's essential for Israelis to
have other media Outlets to go to and
and check and read and see and view uh
to get information that is not there in
Israeli sources but big picture what's
this going to change I mean granted our
teams in Israel you know Tel Aviv
Jerusalem they can't work um but we're
still here we're still going to report
the news uh the rest of the world can
still see us outside of Israel so what's
the
point I think there are two points one
is uh to make it more difficult for
Israelis to see uh which I think is more
important for for the government than um
what the rest of the world sees the
other is basically serving the base we
have this issue that netan and his party
In the far right um have been failing
this war this is you know fact I'm not
even talking about the massacre of tens
of thousands of Palestinians the ethnic
Ling the destruction all of that um but
even even from an Israeli perspective
after 7 months people are saying the
hostages most of them aren't back many
of them are dying U it doesn't seem like
there's a victory at hand so doing
something like this is a way to appease
the base to say look we're doing
something to fight our enemies and let's
pin all our failures on Al jazer just
like we would on um students in US
campuses do you see them at some point
reversing this decision because
interestingly the law the way the the
law is structured um this decision is
applicable for 45 days but then they
would have to renew it if they want to
keep um Banning Al jazer from Israel in
a month and a
half yes and and it is subject to um
Court supervision so it'll be very
interesting to see what happens when we
go to the courts I'm not putting a lot
of faith in that process I don't see
them reversing this measure in the near
future uh unless this is uh some sort of
uh aoy within negotiations and what the
government may think is a tool to
pressure the Qatari government um in the
negotiations for the release of hostages
if that's the case maybe they will
reverse it as part of the deal for
ceasefire but um I have to say I'm very
pessimistic about the degree to which
the Israeli government is interested in
such a deal and therefore I'm also not
very optimistic about reversing this
decision okay hagay matar executive
director of Plus 972 magazine thank you
very much for your time today thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz